towards low-latency mitigation of the effect of sine-gaussian noise  transients on searches for gravitational waves from compact binary  coalescences gravitational wave (gw) signals were recently detected directly by ligo fromthe coalescences of two stellar mass black hole pairs. these detections havestrengthened our long held belief that compact binary coalescences (cbcs) arethe most promising gw detection prospects accessible to ground-basedinterferometric detectors. for detecting cbc signals it is of vital importanceto characterize and identify non-gaussian and non-stationary noise in thesedetectors. in this work we model two important classes of transient artifactsthat contribute to this noise and adversely affect the detector sensitivity tocbc signals. one of them is the sine-gaussian "glitch", characterized by acentral frequency $f_0$ and a quality factor $q$ and the other is the chirpingsine-gaussian glitch, which is characterized by $f_0$, $q$ as well as a chirpparameter. we study the response a bank of compact binary inspiral templateshas to these two families of glitches when they are used to match-filter datacontaining any of these glitches. two important characteristics of thisresponse are the distributions of the snr and the time-lag of individualtemplates. we show how these distributions differ from those when the detectordata has a real cbc signal instead of a glitch. we argue that thesedistinctions can be utilized to develop useful signal-artifact discriminatorsthat add negligibly to the computational cost of a cbc search and can thereforehelp improve the sensitivity of low-latency cbc searches. specifically, we showhow the central frequency of a glitch can be used to set adaptive time-windowsaround it so that any template trigger occurring in that window can bequarantined for further vetting of its supposed astrophysical nature. second,we recommend focusing efforts on reducing the incidence of glitches with low$f_0$ which makes it difficult to establish a causal connection between them.